# INFO 474 Assignment: Building a Data Exploration Tool

## Tool Description
This website shows the statistics on the cuases of death in New York State between 200 and 2013. In order to fully express the data, a grouped bar graph is used. Each leading causes has mortality rate for three sub-categories (Male, Female, and Total). Thus, a grouped bar graph is an ideal method to represent the data. It helps the users to easily compre each cause with nothers, and also each gender group with others. In addition, the scales on this bar graph is interactive with the filtered data. As judging position with the same scale is the primary perceptual task that the users would perform, the adjusted scale will help them to interpret the data more efficiently. For those bars that are not close to the scale, it might be hard to judge the position. However, the mouseover tooltip shows the mortality count for the specific bar.

Above the graph, there are a slider and buttons. The slider controls the year of the data. A slider is an appropriate controller for the year span in this case since the span is not small (10 year gap, so 11 items). Other contoller types such as dropdown list or buttons would not be efficient for represent that many items. Moreover, the slider allows the user to see the trend of change on the graph by slideing thorugh all years. Another element is the region. Since there are only three regions(City, State, and the rest), three buttons are used to represent them. 

With this visual encodings and control features, the users can intepret the data with various perspective. The users can search different data values based on the region, year, gender, and the cuase of deaths. Thus, the graph helps the user to intepret specific data and information. For exmaple, a public health researcher can observe the trend in the number of deaths by Malignant Neoplasms from 2005 to 2010 from the graph. 